# Cybernetics Core: AI and Games
Both video and board games have long been a test for artificial intelligence likely because they have clearly defined rules, objectives and outcomes. However, with the advent of real time strategy (RTS) games in the late 20th and early 21st century, this new genre provided numerous new challenges to the existing AI’s and AI creation paradigms. Because RTS games involve management of several resources and supplies and have less defined moves (aka more available moves) making AI’s capable of beating humans was difficult. While AI’s for RTS games have existed since the game’s creation, they are often only able to beat humans because they are so called “cheating” AI’s (frequently they are given more of the supplies of the game which enables them simply more power than their human opponent). One of the most prominent RTS games is called StarCraft 2. This brings us to the goal of this project.

The end goal of the project is to create a StarCraft 2 AI that performs exceedingly well without any ‘cheating’ mechanism.  However, there is more to this project than just creating a SC2 bot. We will start from a point of limited knowledge and work through simpler gaming examples, demonstrating and applying AI to these games, then apply this newly gained background knowledge to the SC2 bot.

The SC2 bot will be made possible by Blizzard’s (the developers of SC2) opensource s2client-api which they made opensource to enable further AI research and development. Because of Blizzards decision to provide this freely available API, there has already been numerous developments within the SC2 AI community, and there is even a leaderboard of the AI’s which will hopefully provide a valuable metric for measuring our bot. The title of the project also stems from Blizzard, the cybernetics core being a building of the Protoss in SC2 and cybernetics also being the study of humans and machines relation and communication. 

However, that is a long-term goal and likely in the far future. Having no prior experience in AI or C++ programing (which the API is written in), there are sizable subprojects to be completed prior to even starting on the SC2 AI. First, we will go through some very simple games and apply AI to them (while passively learning C++ from Data Structures), then make some slightly harder games and apply AI to them (this being done in python). Finally, by the end of the semester, the goal is to have a simple bot that can play SC2. It will not play well or even make any smart moves, but we will have figured out the API, how to connect to games and how to make certain simple aspects of the game. 
